Brother Lloyd Barry, who has served on the governing body until he finished his earthly course in 1999,
was a missionary and was sent across the world to spread the kingdom good news.
While it was not always easy, Brother Barry was greatly blessed by Jehovah for his faithful service.
Enjoy this lively presentation of the early days of his missionary life in Japan.
We went on to Gilead school and what a marvelous place Gilead was.
We were in the 11th class, Melbourne myself.
The second international class, we had them there from all over Europe and from Great Britain and Australia and New Zealand.
There were 108 in the class. Brother Nord come down. He knew of the troubles in Japan and he'd asked for volunteers to go to Japan.
So some 70 of the 108 volunteers to go to Japan.
He decided that was too many but he selected a group of 28 to learn the Japanese language while the others were all learning French.
So we were well prepared to go to Japan but after we graduated, well you couldn't get into Japan.
It was just after the war and anyone who went there had to have a place prearranged to live in.
Finally Brother Don Haslet and his wife Mabel Haslet went there as the initial missionaries.
Don did a splendid work of finding homes and purchasing homes at a very low price in those days where other missionaries could be accommodated.
And finally the permits came through for our group to go to Japan.
Travel was interesting in those days. It was a trip ship.
All the men were in one dormitory about 25 passengers and one dormitory and all the women were in with other women.
But we survived the trip until the last day and we ran into our first typhoon.
May, what a typhoon that was. It was just like Andrew, the hurricane Andrew that hit Florida.
But here we were out at sea and the waves were mountains above us and the ship was tossing and plunging into the depths there.
Everyone aboard was seasick but I guess that was all part of the fun.
Next morning the typhoon had gone. The sky was so clear and there.
We were right facing up against Mount Fuji, a beautiful view and the clear air at Mount Fuji.
We thought, well, this is a nice welcome to Japan.
So we sailed into Yokohama Port there and we looked at those people and we knew at the time there were only a handful.
Maybe half a dozen kingdom publishers active in the country we wondered, well anything ever come out of this.
So we went up to Tokyo, we saw the branch there and that night they shipped us down to Kobe, which is our missionary assignment.
And I'll never forget those early missionary days there.
We first arrived, we didn't have any beds so we just cut down the grass in the garden and heaped grass in the rooms and put a blanket across the grass.
And we slept on the grass for about three weeks until we could get some beds and everyone wanted to listen to us.
And our big problem was to find out who was really interested in the truth.
In Melbourne, for example, she talked to a lady at the house and this lady showed much interest in the foreigners.
She went upstairs and she brought down a Japanese English dictionary and they talked through this dictionary for a while.
Melbourne got a study there and the lady next door studied with them and she was one of our first publishers that woman that we met on the first day.
In fact, they both became publishers and the senior one she's pioneered for years and years.
We got a little footage there on the very first day.
I remember one month when we had 12 missionaries in the home, we reported 360 studies.
That was 30 studies for missionary.
So you can imagine we weren't doing anything there but conduct studies.
The problem was who were really interested.
Let me cut that down after a while because he realised you had to keep up house to house activity too, identify new ones.
We used to have a lot of fun learning the language.
One of the first public talks I gave I went from Kobe to Osaka and I was giving this talk.
There were two young Japanese ladies sitting in the front row and they were straining their ears, they were listening, listening.
And after two months they looked at each other and they both first out laughing.
So after I'd finished the talk I said to them, young ladies, what was so funny about my talk?
They said, well we were trying so hard to understand your English and suddenly we realised there was Japanese.
So that's how good my Japanese was in those days.
After we'd learnt enough of the language to really converse with the people and really get to and fro with them in the Japanese language.
And right away as soon as we started to study in Japanese we lost about two thirds of our studies.
And that's how we learnt who were interested in us and who were interested in the truth.
It's interesting that in the first ten years in Japan and we had up to 60 missionaries in the country by that time we got just 1,000 publishers.
And now in Japan they get 1,000 publishers increase every month.
But when the work really started to blossom was when families came in and families formed the foundation of the congregations.
If you had two or three good families, husband, wife, children and the truth, you had a foundation there you could really build on.
And that has been one of the big contributory points in the development of the work in Japan.
You talk about Jehovah speeding the work up, well that means it's been speeded up 120 times since those early days of missionary work.
There's nothing here on this earth to compare with God's organisation. There's never been anything even back in Bible times to compare with what Jehovah has now and what he's doing now.
So I must say it's been a great privilege to be in contact with the door and when you look back over the years you really do appreciate your privileges and it makes you feel humble and that you should be a lot more humble than you really are because after all none of us is more than just a little piece of dirt you might say.
Why is it that Jehovah uses us stick at the brothers and sisters? You're in perhaps the most privileged place in the world today and let your joy keep overflowing and just stay with it and Jehovah will bless you.